Weekly Announcement 11/30
####################################

:date: 2016-11-30
:tags: announcements

Hi everybody!

There's a lot in this email, make sure you read through!

Our temporary website can be found at https://activities.tjhsst.edu/vmt/.
Shout out to Hao for building and maintaining the website.

**This week,** we had a **Plank Countdown A block** and a **Squat Countdown B Block**. 
Congratulations to Neeyanth Kopparapu and the 9th grader William Xu for winning the two countdowns, respectively.

**Next week**, we will have a **double block Proof contest**. 
If you are interested in qualifying for **HMMT** in February, you should attend. 
If you cannot take the contest on Wednesday, you can make it up on **Monday from 4:10 to 6:00**. Please let us know if you'd like to make it up by **Sunday noon**.

Congratulations to VMT on **winning ARML Power**. Also, congratulations to **A team at PUMaC** for placing **3rd overall**, and **1st in the Team Round**.
Congratulations to Franklyn for placing 8th in Algebra, 1st in Number Theory and third overall. Also, congratulations for Joshua Lee for placing 4th in Geometry, and Michael Huang for placing 6th in Combinatorics. 
We'd also like to congratulate Aaditya Singh, Kyle Gatesman, and Akshaj Kadaveru for placing 3rd, 5th and 6th at Duke Math Meet the week before. 
**PUMaC pictures** can be found `online <https://psingh.smugmug.com/Hobbies/PUMaC/PUMaC-2016/n-p7r8Cw/i-vvMK2cq>`_.

Next **Monday**, we will have **TJAIME/TJUSAMO** on Monday after-school from 4:10 to 6:10. 
Kyle will be lecturing **TJAIME**, and Jeffery will be continuing his **TJUSAMO** lecture from last week. 
Past lectures can be found on the website.

We also have several spots remaining for **CMIMC** on **January 28** (`more information <http://cmimc.co/>`_). 
We will be traveling there in a bus. 
If you'd like to attend, please contact us ASAP.

**ARML** is also on the horizon. **ARML practices** will start on **February 2nd**.
ARML practices take place on **Thursdays from 7:00 to 9:00**, with a lecture from **6:10 to 7:00**. 
**Attention all freshman and sophomores who have not traveled**: We will be sending a JV team to ARML this year, so we encourage you to attend these ARML practices.

**Virginia Math Teachers have a contest this year called HEXA Challenge**.
The contest consists of 6 proofs due by February 29th, 2017. Photos of the
problems are attached below if you are interested.

Math team is also conducting a **Secret Santa**. 
The exchange will take place on **December 14**. 
The signup deadline is **December 5**. 
You can sign up `here <https://www.elfster.com/exchange/view/21575535/5516e5/>`_.

**TJIMO** has been rescheduled to **Saturday, March 4th.**

**Moody's Mega Math (M3) Challenge** (`see here <https://m3challenge.siam.org/>`_) is a national mathematical modeling contest for high school juniors and seniors sponsored by The Moody's Foundation and organized by the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM). 
Scholarship prizes total $150,000. 
Students gain the experience of working in teams to tackle a real-world problem under time and resource constraints akin to those faced by industrial applied mathematicians.

TJ can send up to two teams of 3-5 students. 
The Moody’s 2016 competition takes place over a 14-hour block sometime on Friday-Monday, February 24th-27th, 2017. 
**If you are interested, please read through past problems on their website, and form a team.**
**Each person on the team should write a short statement describing their interest in the competition and the contributions they can make to the team.** 
Then, email these statements to `Mrs. Coffey <mailto:mecoffey@fcps.edu>`_. 
Note that it is very important to be familiar with mathematical modelling software like Mathematica and Matlab, as well as the specific format of the problems, for this competition. 
If you've read till here, message Akshaj a smiley face on facebook ;).

Also, **sign up for academic boosters ASAP**.

As a reminder, please join our Facebook page (TJ Varsity Math Team).

Have a nice week!

VMT Officers


HEXA Challenge Problems
*************************

October Challange:
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

It is 2016. If we continue writing the digits, 2, 0, 1, 6, in this order N times, we'll GET a different number K=201620162016...2016 where the digits 2, 0, 1, 6 are repeated N times. Prove that K can not be a perfect square of any integer number.

November Challange:
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

There are N people live in a city, where there are two main competing companies. Out of these people, n know each other, because they work for the same company. m people also know each other because they work in the same city, but in a rival company. Personal relationships between workers ar rival companies are not allowed. What portion of the population of the city, does not work for either of these companies, but can know exactly one person from each company?

December Challenge:
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Given an infinitely large set of different types of triangles, if one randomly selects a triangle, what are the chances of this triangle being obtuse?

January Challenge:
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Solve the following equation:

.. math::
    
    x^2 \left[ 1 + \frac{4}{(x+2)^2} \right] = 5

February Challange:
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Prove the following for any integer number :math:`n`\ :

.. math::
    
    \frac{1}{n+1} + \frac{1}{n+2} + \frac{1}{n+3} + \cdots + \frac{1}{2n} > \frac{1}{2}

March Challenge:
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

In an isosceles triangle ANC, AB=BC, angle B is 20 degrees, AC is five units. Points D is on BC, so that angle BAD is 30 degrees, and angle DAC is 50 degrees. Point E is on the side AB, so that angle ECB is 60 degrees and angle ECA is 20 degrees. Find the length of DE.
